README.md, before:

#AlphaDraft Challenger League

##Format

###League Play
 - 10 teams
 - Teams play two rounds of Round Robin
 - Top three six teams advance to the playoffs
 - All games Best of 1

###Playoffs
 - Top two seeded teams advance to semi finals
 - Semi finals & quarter finals are Best of 3
 - Grand finals are Best of 5
 - 3rd place will be played

###Prize Pool
 - 1st: $5,000
 - 2nd: $3,000
 - 3rd: $1000
 - 4th-10th: $500

##Team Rosters
 - Teams must have a minimum of 5 players
 - Teams may have up to 2 substitute players

###Roster Changes
 - Teams may make up to 2 roster changes per week
 - Teams may make a maxium of 4 roster changes through the entire event
 - Roster changes require a 1 week notice to tournament officials before the new player is eligible to play

##Game Rules
###Punctuality of Players
####Readiness
A team will be considered ready when the following requirements are met:
 - Players are ready to play
 - All 5 players are in the lobby
 - Players are on the correct side
 - Players are in "LCS order"
  - Top
  - Jungle
  - Mid
  - ADC
  - Support

####First Game of the Day
 - For the first game of a day, teams are considered late if they are not ready **5 minutes before** the schedule start time. Example: If the first game of the day is at 4PM PDT, teams are considered late if they are not ready to play by 3:55PM PDT.

####Following Games
 - For the following games, teams will be considered late **10 minutes after** the Victory screen of the previous game appears on the stream.
 
####Penalties for Lateness
**Best of 1s**
 - First strike (being late): loss of 1 ban
 - Second strike (10 mins late): loss of all bans
 - Third strike (15 mins late): forfeiture of game

**Best of 3s and 5s**  
Strikes are reset after each game.
 - First strike (being late): loss of 1 ban
 - Second strike (10 mins late): forfeiture of game
 - Third strike (15 mins late): forfeiture of series

###Choice of Side
 - During league play, first game side will be decided by coin toss
 - During playoffs, first choice of side will go to the higher seeded team
 - Teams will switch sides between games
 
### Game of Record
  - Game of record (“GOR”) refers to a game where all ten players have loaded and which has progressed to a point of meaningful interaction between opposing teams. Once a game has attained GOR status, the period ends in which incidental restarts may be permitted and a game will be considered as “official” from that point onward. After the establishment of GOR, game restarts will be allowed only under limited conditions (see Section 4.5) Examples of conditions which establish GOR:
  
    - A player has obtained a creep score greater than zero (0).
    - A player has died to a player, turret, minion or monster.
    - Game timer reaches two (2) minutes.

###Stoppage of Play
  - Players may only pause a match immediately following any of the events described below.
    - Unintentional disconnection
    - Hardware or software malfunction
    - Player illness
  - Pause Allowance. Teams may pause the game for a maximum of fifteen (15) minutes over the course of a single game. Pausing beyond allowance time will be considered unfair play and penalties will be applied at the discretion of tournament officials.
  
###Game Restart
  - **Restarts Before GOR**
    - A player’s runes or mastery settings have not applied correctly between the game lobby and match in a way that cannot be adjusted within the game, then a game may be restarted.
  - **Restarts After GOR**
    - If a game experiences a critical bug at any point during the match which significantly alters game stats or gameplay mechanics, then a game may be restarted.
  - In the event of a restart, players are required to keep the same picks, bans, and summoner spells.

##Player Equipment Responsibility.
  - All players are responsible for ensuring the performance of their chosen setup, including computer hardware and peripherals, internet connection, and power. A problem with player equipment is not an acceptable reason for lateness or pausing beyond a team’s allowance, regardless of the root cause of the problem.

##Restrictions on Gameplay Elements
 - Restrictions may be added at any time before or during a match if there are known bugs with any items, champions, skins, runes, masteries, or Summoner spells, or for any other reason as determined at the discretion of tournament officials
 - Champions who have not been available on the live service for more than 2 weeks will be automatically restricted.

##Use of Subs and Starting Lineups
 - Teams may **not** swap players during a game or series
 - Starting lineup is defined as the 5 declared players for the games on a specific date
 - Starting lineups must be given in LCS order: Top,Jungle,Mid,ADC,Support
 - Starting lineups must be submitted by 11:59PM (Pacific) the day before the schedule games
 - Starting lineups are made up of 5 of the 7 players registered on a team and are separate from roster changes

###Penalties
 - Late submission of starting lineups
  - before 01:00 AM (Pacific) of the playing day: 1 Demerit
  - before 11:59 AM (Pacific) of the playing day: 2 Demerits
  - before 4:00 PM (Pacific) of the playing day: 3 Demerits
 - Late change of starting lineup (ie: using a last-minute sub from existing roster of 7)
  - before 01:00 AM (Pacific) of the playing day: 1 Demerit
  - before 11:59 AM (Pacific) of the playing day: 2 Demerits
  - before 4:00 PM (Pacific) of the playing day: 3 Demerits

Additional Demerits may be assigned by the administrative staff for reasons including:
- Lateness
- Excessive forfeitures

##Demerits & Penailts
1 Demerit = Warning. This demerit will roll over to the next week, then expire after that day is done. For example, a Demerit earned on Wednesday will be active during that week’s Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday games, as well as the next week’s Tuesday games, then expire once the next week’s Tuesday games are completed.

If a team has accumulated over 1 Demerit, their prize pool earnings will be reduced by **$50** for each Demerit over 1.

##Unfair Play & Penalties
Unfair Play. The following actions will be considered unfair play and will be subject to penalties at organizer’s discretion.
 - The use of any cheat program and/or map hack program
 - An intentional disconnection without a proper and explicitly stated reason
 - Unsportsmanlike conduct or disruptive behavior such as inappropriate and/or unprofessional actions directed towards another player or tournament official
 - The intentional use of a game bug or error to obtain an unfair advantage
 - The use of an ineligible player (e.g. "ringing")
 - Sharing accounts between team members or nonmembers.
 - Unauthorized obstructions to match scheduling (e.g. lateness)

##Penalties for Unfair Play.
Upon discovery of any player committing any violations regarded as unfair play, the tournament director may issue any or all penalties, at his/her sole discretion.
 - Verbal Warning
 - Demerits
 - Loss of Side Selection
 - Loss of Champion Ban
 - Game Forfeiture
 - Tournament Disqualification

##Competitor Promotion Restrictions
Players and teams are prohitibed from promoting direct AlphaDraft competitors for the duration of the event.

##Spirit of the Rules
###Finality of Decisions.
All decisions regarding the interpretation of these rules, player eligibility, scheduling and staging of the tournament, and penalties for misconduct, lie solely with WellPlayed and assigned tournament officials, the decisions of which are final.
###Rule Changes.
These rules may be amended, modified, or supplemented in order to ensure fair play and the integrity of the competition

##Prize Pool Payout
 - Prize pool payout will be the responsibility of AlphaDraft

Commit message:

Slight wording change and roster change form link.

README.md, after:

#AlphaDraft Challenger League

##Format

###League Play
 - 10 teams
 - Teams play two rounds of Round Robin
 - Top three six teams advance to the playoffs
 - All games Best of 1

###Playoffs
 - Top two seeded teams advance to semi finals
 - Semi finals & quarter finals are Best of 3
 - Grand finals are Best of 5
 - 3rd place will be played

###Prize Pool
 - 1st: $5,000
 - 2nd: $3,000
 - 3rd: $1000
 - 4th-10th: $500

##Team Rosters
 - Teams must have a minimum of 5 players and may have a maximum of 7

###Roster Changes
 - Teams may make up to 2 roster changes per week
 - Teams may make a maxium of 4 roster changes through the entire event
 - Roster changes require a 1 week notice to tournament officials before the new player is eligible to play
 - Roster changes can be submitted here: https://docs.google.com/a/wellplayed.org/forms/d/14JbJwlm-qFobwDvXB50qaIJz6HPQ_ZYxOIDo-s7vjxo/viewform

##Game Rules
###Punctuality of Players
####Readiness
A team will be considered ready when the following requirements are met:
 - Players are ready to play
 - All 5 players are in the lobby
 - Players are on the correct side
 - Players are in "LCS order"
  - Top
  - Jungle
  - Mid
  - ADC
  - Support

####First Game of the Day
 - For the first game of a day, teams are considered late if they are not ready **5 minutes before** the schedule start time. Example: If the first game of the day is at 4PM PDT, teams are considered late if they are not ready to play by 3:55PM PDT.

####Following Games
 - For the following games, teams will be considered late **10 minutes after** the Victory screen of the previous game appears on the stream.
 
####Penalties for Lateness
**Best of 1s**
 - First strike (being late): loss of 1 ban
 - Second strike (10 mins late): loss of all bans
 - Third strike (15 mins late): forfeiture of game

**Best of 3s and 5s**  
Strikes are reset after each game.
 - First strike (being late): loss of 1 ban
 - Second strike (10 mins late): forfeiture of game
 - Third strike (15 mins late): forfeiture of series

###Choice of Side
 - During league play, first game side will be decided by coin toss
 - During playoffs, first choice of side will go to the higher seeded team
 - Teams will switch sides between games
 
### Game of Record
  - Game of record (“GOR”) refers to a game where all ten players have loaded and which has progressed to a point of meaningful interaction between opposing teams. Once a game has attained GOR status, the period ends in which incidental restarts may be permitted and a game will be considered as “official” from that point onward. After the establishment of GOR, game restarts will be allowed only under limited conditions (see Section 4.5) Examples of conditions which establish GOR:
  
    - A player has obtained a creep score greater than zero (0).
    - A player has died to a player, turret, minion or monster.
    - Game timer reaches two (2) minutes.

###Stoppage of Play
  - Players may only pause a match immediately following any of the events described below.
    - Unintentional disconnection
    - Hardware or software malfunction
    - Player illness
  - Pause Allowance. Teams may pause the game for a maximum of fifteen (15) minutes over the course of a single game. Pausing beyond allowance time will be considered unfair play and penalties will be applied at the discretion of tournament officials.
  
###Game Restart
  - **Restarts Before GOR**
    - A player’s runes or mastery settings have not applied correctly between the game lobby and match in a way that cannot be adjusted within the game, then a game may be restarted.
  - **Restarts After GOR**
    - If a game experiences a critical bug at any point during the match which significantly alters game stats or gameplay mechanics, then a game may be restarted.
  - In the event of a restart, players are required to keep the same picks, bans, and summoner spells.

##Player Equipment Responsibility.
  - All players are responsible for ensuring the performance of their chosen setup, including computer hardware and peripherals, internet connection, and power. A problem with player equipment is not an acceptable reason for lateness or pausing beyond a team’s allowance, regardless of the root cause of the problem.

##Restrictions on Gameplay Elements
 - Restrictions may be added at any time before or during a match if there are known bugs with any items, champions, skins, runes, masteries, or Summoner spells, or for any other reason as determined at the discretion of tournament officials
 - Champions who have not been available on the live service for more than 2 weeks will be automatically restricted.

##Use of Subs and Starting Lineups
 - Teams may **not** swap players during a game or series
 - Starting lineup is defined as the 5 declared players for the games on a specific date
 - Starting lineups must be given in LCS order: Top,Jungle,Mid,ADC,Support
 - Starting lineups must be submitted by 11:59PM (Pacific) the day before the schedule games
 - Starting lineups are made up of 5 of the 7 players registered on a team and are separate from roster changes

###Penalties
 - Late submission of starting lineups
  - before 01:00 AM (Pacific) of the playing day: 1 Demerit
  - before 11:59 AM (Pacific) of the playing day: 2 Demerits
  - before 4:00 PM (Pacific) of the playing day: 3 Demerits
 - Late change of starting lineup (ie: using a last-minute sub from existing roster of 7)
  - before 01:00 AM (Pacific) of the playing day: 1 Demerit
  - before 11:59 AM (Pacific) of the playing day: 2 Demerits
  - before 4:00 PM (Pacific) of the playing day: 3 Demerits

Additional Demerits may be assigned by the administrative staff for reasons including:
- Lateness
- Excessive forfeitures

##Demerits & Penailts
1 Demerit = Warning. This demerit will roll over to the next week, then expire after that day is done. For example, a Demerit earned on Wednesday will be active during that week’s Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday games, as well as the next week’s Tuesday games, then expire once the next week’s Tuesday games are completed.

If a team has accumulated over 1 Demerit, their prize pool earnings will be reduced by **$50** for each Demerit over 1.

##Unfair Play & Penalties
Unfair Play. The following actions will be considered unfair play and will be subject to penalties at organizer’s discretion.
 - The use of any cheat program and/or map hack program
 - An intentional disconnection without a proper and explicitly stated reason
 - Unsportsmanlike conduct or disruptive behavior such as inappropriate and/or unprofessional actions directed towards another player or tournament official
 - The intentional use of a game bug or error to obtain an unfair advantage
 - The use of an ineligible player (e.g. "ringing")
 - Sharing accounts between team members or nonmembers.
 - Unauthorized obstructions to match scheduling (e.g. lateness)

##Penalties for Unfair Play.
Upon discovery of any player committing any violations regarded as unfair play, the tournament director may issue any or all penalties, at his/her sole discretion.
 - Verbal Warning
 - Demerits
 - Loss of Side Selection
 - Loss of Champion Ban
 - Game Forfeiture
 - Tournament Disqualification

##Competitor Promotion Restrictions
Players and teams are prohitibed from promoting direct AlphaDraft competitors for the duration of the event.

##Spirit of the Rules
###Finality of Decisions.
All decisions regarding the interpretation of these rules, player eligibility, scheduling and staging of the tournament, and penalties for misconduct, lie solely with WellPlayed and assigned tournament officials, the decisions of which are final.
###Rule Changes.
These rules may be amended, modified, or supplemented in order to ensure fair play and the integrity of the competition

##Prize Pool Payout
 - Prize pool payout will be the responsibility of AlphaDraft
